in this video let us learn the delete front operation
and its implementation
The delete front operation will remove the element from the
front of the deque
Here we have three cases
The first one is when the deque is empty and the
second one is when
deque has more than one element
That is a normal case and the third one is
when deque has only one element so
let us discuss
All three scenarios one by one first let us discuss the
empty
deque case
In this case we cannot perform Delete operation as the
deque is empty so we can choose print deque empty
Next let us discuss the normal deque case
Let's take this sample deque here
We need to remove the front element to remove the
front node
First we need to back up the front node in
a temporary variable and then we can make the front
pointer point to its next node
That is front
equal to front next
Now the previous of front pointer will still point to
the old node so we need to make it null
as well
So after moving the front pointer we need to set
the front of previous to null so set Front prev
equal to null
And finally we can free the backed up front
node that's it Now let's discuss The last case for
the deque has only one element
If the deque has only one element after the removal
it will become empty
So in this case after the removal a front pointer
becomes null
We need to reset rear Pointer to null as well
That's it the logic of delete front operation is very
simple
First check If front is null if it's null the
deque is empty so we can just print deque is empty if
it is not empty we need to remove the front
node
So back up the front node in temporary pointer and
then make front node point to its next node that
is front equal to front next
After that we need to set previous of front
to null so write front prev equal to null
And finally free
The temporary pointer
and that's it
Here the logic is almost done
We just need to consider one more scenario
That is when the deque has only one element in
this case after removal that is after front equal to
front next statement The front pointer will point to
null So after removal we need to null check the
front pointer If it's null we need to reset
the rear pointer to null so write if front equal
to null rear equal to null otherwise we just need to
set the previous of front pointer to null so we
can move this line in the else part
That said this is the implementation of the delete front
operation and the next video we will implement delete
rear operation.